We introduce Midas, a software and hardware toolkit to support the design, fabrication, and programming of flexible capacitive touch sensors for interactive objects.

With Midas, designers first define the desired shape, layout, and type of touch sensitive areas in a sensor editor interface.  Midas automatically generates a layout file with appropriate sensor pads and routed connections.

This file is then cut out in copper on a vinyl cutter and adhered to the desired prototype object.

A second file generated for each layout is cut out of vinyl and used to insulate the traces from creating stray touches.

Once both layers are affixed to the prototype, the Midas microcontroller dongle and the copper tape traces are connected via either more tape or soldering.  We have found soldering to be very quick and more robust than tape.  This information and more is detailed in the instructions page generated by the Midas system.

If Midas generates traces, it also automatically registers sensors according to the instructions it creates.  If traces are not generated, the user can register the sensors by touching them once.  Registered traces are indicated by a stripe of the color wire they are tied to.

As interactions, Midas supports both record-and-replay actions for existing applications and event output to control novel applications via websockets.

Record and replay is as simple as it sounds: the user hits record, then performs a series of clicking and typing actions, then clicks "done".  Afterwards, Midas will replay that series of actions when it detects a touch from the sensor registered to that script.

For websocket-based interactions, the user simply enters a server address.  That server will then receive events from Midas describing which sensor was touched, its name, whether it is part of a pad or slider, and, if so, its position in the pad or slider.

We used Midas's websocket framework to prototype a version of edgewrite on the backside of a Google Nexus One and to create an interactive music poster.
